This will not be a normal video
We're going to send garlic bread to the edge of the room!
Many people have sent objects into space with balloons.
usually as advertising stunt.
But contrary to what many press releases say
these objects have not been in space.
Most standards organizations agree
that the space starts on the completely arbitrary, 100 km high, Kármán line.
And these balloons only come to about 1/3 of this height.
And we certainly do not put it in orbit around the earth
A job around the earth requires a speed of tens of thousands of kilometers per hour
That's what these rockets are for.
- We use a weather balloon today.
Quite a big one, actually.
We go as high as we can with this cargo.
It is very cold on the way up.
It gets warmer when you reach this kind of altitude.
So it is the coldest just above the jet stream
and then it gets a little warmer again.
Then the temperature drops again to about 0 ° C at the spot where the balloon bursts.
- The idea that all those publicity stunts really made it to space
is helped by using a fish eye lens (fisheye lens).
it ensures that the roundness of the earth seems a lot more dramatic
then he really is at that height
We use cameras that correct for that
so what you see on your screen is more or less what you would see up there.
So we do not say "space" but "the edge of space",
which is actually a kind of marketing term, but the atmosphere is so thin above it,
about 1% of the air pressure down here, that it is good enough.
Why garlic bread?
Because it is very tasty,
and because someone has already sent pizza up with a balloon a few years ago.
- This garlic bread is delicious.
It is home-made. Well, except for the baguette.
I put homemade garlic butter on it, with some really good Parmesan cheese.
Although I made it at 5 o'clock this morning.
So it's going to be in a near-vacuum.
It could be that it is frozen. I mean...
We send half the air in the balloon
and the other half we leave on earth for a real comparative test.
- The higher it goes, the thinner the atmosphere becomes
and the less air it pushes in.
The balloon will then become larger and larger
and will eventually burst
and the equipment goes down on a parachute
and we're going to pick it up.
Usually we predict the landing site with a precision of about eight kilometers
when we release the balloon.
We trace the balloon with radio tracers.
They send a signal with a GPS position to the ground
and it is shown on a map and we chase the expected landing place of the balloon.
I have done a lot of hot balloon trips.
I've been doing it for about ten years now.
Have never lost one. Have sent a few to their damnation.
- All types of food have been sent into the stratosphere.
The BBC once sent a wedding cake up for a children's program
but the bottom line was that nobody really ate it.
I have never found balloon-launched food that was actually eaten after landing.
The main reason for this is that you have no idea
from where it's going to land, where it's going to land,
or what kind of animals are there before you.
- The box that I designed has a small servomotor,
and a piece of rope and some (jumping) feathers.
As it comes down, the servomotor closes at 1000 meters (1km) from the ground.
- So now we have to put our cars in and behind the load.
It's going to land about a kilometer for us
so, Barry, keep an eye on the sky,
because I have to keep my eyes on the road.
Do you think we can park here?
Okay, let's go.
- It's there at the end of that row.
- Okay, there we go.
- O man! - I think it's up there.
Well, we have at least two cameras.
Yes, I think they are both still filming.
- Okay, then we go. - Lift it up.
- Ah yes! - Yeah.
- Okay, so this is your original right?
- Yes Yes.
- That's very tasty.
- Not bad, is it?
- Space bread ...
- Is it cold?
- It's not so ... Oh!
No, that was completely different.
So it ripped; he did [tear noise].
This did "click".
- The middle is absolutely frozen.
- Oh, wow.
- I do not know, I mean ... - That's frozen.
That is frozen in the stratosphere.
- You can see some of the color in the middle.
It's whiter, is not it?
- This has been in the stratosphere and I am eating it.
Kind of.
Thank you, Steve Randall from Random Aerospace
and Barry Lewis from My Virgin Kitchen.
I do not really know what I did in this process.
I'm actually just playing the DJ Khaled here.
- Yeah, yeah.
DJ Garl-ed? No, that wordgrap does not work.
- Okay, yes, it's okay, we're done. - Yes. Sorry.
Thanks everyone!